.TH PATHSEARCH 1 "January 2026" "pathsearch 0.2.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pathsearch \- search for files in PATH
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pathsearch
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIPATTERN\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pathsearch
searches each directory in the PATH environment variable for files
matching the given pattern.
.PP
Results are displayed in PATH order\(emthe order they appear in your
PATH environment variable. This means the first result is always the
file that would actually run if you typed the command in your shell.
Subsequent results show any shadowed files with the same name in
later PATH directories.
.PP
If no pattern is provided, all files in PATH are listed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-regex
Interpret the pattern as a regular expression instead of a substring.
.TP
.BR \-\-color " " \fIWHEN\fR
Control color output. WHEN can be \fBauto\fR (default), \fBalways\fR, or \fBnever\fR.
Auto enables color when output is a terminal.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help information.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information.
.SH PATTERN MATCHING
By default, pathsearch performs case-sensitive substring matching.
.PP
With \fB\-r\fR, the pattern is interpreted as a regular expression.
Use \fB^pattern\fR to match at the start of filenames, or
\fBpattern$\fR to match at the end.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Find files containing "vim":
.B pathsearch vim
.TP
Find files starting with "python":
.B pathsearch \-r \(aq^python\(aq
.TP
List all files:
.B pathsearch
.TP
Pipe to fzf for interactive selection:
.B pathsearch | fzf
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error (invalid arguments, unreadable PATH, etc.)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PATH
Colon-separated list of directories to search.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR which (1),
.BR whereis (1),
.BR type (1)
